---
layout: post
title:  OpenCV
comments: true
categories: [Machine Learning, OpenCV, Python]
excerpt: Computer Vision is a field of multiple desciplines that care about how computers can gain a high-level understanding from digital images/videos. This is an attempt to automate tasks that the human visual system is able to perform. This is a process of aquiring, processing, analyzing and understanding digital images, extracting high dimensional data from the real world (to provide numerical/symbolic) information.

---

## What is computer vision in Python?

Computer Vision is a field of multiple desciplines that care about how computers can gain a high-level understanding from digital images/videos.
This is an attempt to automate tasks that the human visual system is able to perform. This is a process of aquiring, processing, analyzing and understanding digital images, extracting high dimensional data from the real world (to provide numerical/symbolic) information.

Typical task involved in Computer Vision are

- Recognition
- Motion Analysis
- Scene Reconstruction
- Image Restoration

Fields related to Python Computer Vision are:

- Artificial Intelligence
- Solid-state Physics
- Neurobiology
- Signal Processing
- Statistics, Optimization, Geometry

Some of the applications of Python Computer Vision are:

- Automatic inspection in manufacturing applications
- Assisting humans in identification tasks (e.g. species identification system)
- Controlling processes (e.g. an industrial robot)
- Detecting events (e.g. visual surveillance)
- Interation (e.g. input to the device for human-computer interaction)
- Modeling objects/environments (e.g. medical image analysis)
- Navigation (e.g. autonomous vehicles)
- Organizing information (e.g. indexing databases of images and image sequencing)

## Setup

- Create conda enviroment with Python 3.7. I have named mine as 'opencv'
- Install opencv-python using command `pip install opencv-python`
- Go to python shell and type `import cv2` and press enter. It should not give any error.
- Clone the [OpenCV github repository](https://github.com/opencv/) for sample code and data. Data folder contains many sample images and videos which can be used for learning purpose.

