---
layout: post
title:  Angular
comments: true
categories: [Angular]
permalink: /angular/
excerpt: Angular is a platform for building mobile and desktop web applications. Angular is an application design framework and development platform for creating efficient and sophisticated single-page apps. 
---

Angular is a platform for building mobile and desktop web applications. Angular is an application design framework and development platform for creating efficient and sophisticated single-page apps.

Questions to answer

- **What the use of Angular?**

    Ans: Angular is a Javascript UI Binding framework which helps you to bind the HTML UI and javascript model.

    Angular is a platform and framework for building single-page client applications using HTML and Typescript. Angular is written in Typescript. It implements core and optional functionality as set of Typescript libraries that you can import into your apps.

    |                | AngularJS | Angular |
    |                | (1.x)     | (2.0+)  |
    |----------------|-----------|---------|
    |Language        |Controller |Component|
    |Mobile Complient|No         |Yes      |
    |CLI             |No         |Yes      |
    |Lazy Loading    |No         |Yes      |
    |SEO             |No         |Yes      |
    |Server Side     |No         |Yes      |


- **What are directives in Angular?**
    
    A class that can modify structure of the DOM or modify attributes in the DOM and component data model. A directive class definition is immidiately preceeded by @Directive() decorator that supplies metadata.

    A directive class is usually associated with an HTML element or attribute, and that element or attribute is often referred to as the directive itself. When angular finds a directive in HTML template, it creates the matching class instance and gives the instance control over that portion of the browser DOM.

    There are thre categories of directive:
    - **Components** use @Component() (an extension of @Directive()) to associate a template with a class.
    - **Attribute** directives modify behaviour and appearance of page element.
    - **Structural Directives** modify the structure of the DOM.

    Angular supplies a number of built-in directives that begin with the ng-prefix. You can also create new directives to implement your own functionality. 

- Explain the importance of NPM and Node_Modules folder in Angular.
- Explain the importance of package.json file in Angular.
- What is typescipt and why do we need it?
- Explain importance of Angular CLI.
- Explain the different types of Angular directives
- What is a decorator in Angular?
- What are annotations or metadata?
- What is a template?
- Explain four types of data bindings in Angular.
- Explain architecture of Angular.
- What is SPA in Angular?
- How to implement SPA in Angular?
- How to implement routing in Angular?
- Explain lazy loading.
- How to implement laze loading in Angular?
- Define Services.
- What is dependency injection.
- How to implement dependency injection.
- What is the benefit of dependency injection.
- Differentiate between ng-serve and ng-build.



